---
layout: blog-post
categories: [ blog-posts ]

title: "PHP Tour Clermont-Fd 2016 (English Version)"
---

![](/images/blog-posts/phptour.png)

Dear non-French reader, this entry is a (sort of) translation of our [PHP Tour
Clermont-Fd 2016](/blog-posts/phptour-clermont-fd-2016.html) blog post.

---

The French PHP User Group, a.k.a. **A**ssociation **F**rançaise des
**U**tilisateurs de **P**HP (AFUP), and Clermont'ech are pleased to announce the
**PHP Tour 2016**, the annual "not-in-Paris" French PHP conference.  This event
will be held in **Clermont-Ferrand**, a really peaceful place in the middle of
France, on **May 23-24**.

If you are a rubgy fan, then you probably know the
[ASM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASM_Clermont_Auvergne) (yellow and blue)
team, which is famous for... loosing finals. Don't know what it is? No worries,
because this place is way more famous for its quality of life and its volcanos.
Yes. Volcanos like these ones:

![](/images/blog-posts/auvergne.jpg)

This is a wonderful area, and you will love it!  Anyway, back to the PHP Tour.
This event lasts **two full days**, and the venue is the **Polydome convention
centre**, the best spot for such an event! Like most of the tech conferences and
the previous AFUP events, **talks** (20 or 40min slots) and **workshops** are
planned. Every year, hundreds of attendees are welcomed.

We want everyone to be there. By "everyone", we really mean **everyone**, and
we, organizers, are committed to making this event a **safer place** than ever,
for everyone, regardless of background. Both AFUP and Clermont'ech have [Codes of
Conduct](http://afup.org/pages/site/?route=code-of-conduct/79), in which we
trust. We will enforce it, and anyone attending the PHP Tour (as well as any of
our events) MUST understand, accept, and respect these rules. No exception.

Yet, diversity cannot be achieved without a decent schedule. That is why we need
**all** of you! The **Call For Paper is open** until February 20, and we cannot
wait to read your proposals! You will find the CFP page at:
[http://event.afup.org/php-tour-2016/appel-a-conferenciers/](http://event.afup.org/php-tour-2016/appel-a-conferenciers/?lang=en).
Need help? Ping [us](mailto:phptour@clermontech.org). For this event, we
encourage people who do not use to speak at conferences (no matter their
reasons).

We hope to see you soon!

_AFUP &amp; Clermont'ech._

description: phptour clermont fd 2016 en
---
-

![](/images/blog-posts/phptour.png)

Dear non-French reader, this entry is a (sort of) translation of our [PHP Tour
Clermont-Fd 2016](/blog-posts/phptour-clermont-fd-2016.html) blog post.

---

The French PHP User Group, a.k.a. **A**ssociation **F**rançaise des
**U**tilisateurs de **P**HP (AFUP), and Clermont'ech are pleased to announce the
**PHP Tour 2016**, the annual "not-in-Paris" French PHP conference.  This event
will be held in **Clermont-Ferrand**, a really peaceful place in the middle of
France, on **May 23-24**.

If you are a rubgy fan, then you probably know the
[ASM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASM_Clermont_Auvergne) (yellow and blue)
team, which is famous for... loosing finals. Don't know what it is? No worries,
because this place is way more famous for its quality of life and its volcanos.
Yes. Volcanos like these ones:

![](/images/blog-posts/auvergne.jpg)

This is a wonderful area, and you will love it!  Anyway, back to the PHP Tour.
This event lasts **two full days**, and the venue is the **Polydome convention
centre**, the best spot for such an event! Like most of the tech conferences and
the previous AFUP events, **talks** (20 or 40min slots) and **workshops** are
planned. Every year, hundreds of attendees are welcomed.

We want everyone to be there. By "everyone", we really mean **everyone**, and
we, organizers, are committed to making this event a **safer place** than ever,
for everyone, regardless of background. Both AFUP and Clermont'ech have [Codes of
Conduct](http://afup.org/pages/site/?route=code-of-conduct/79), in which we
trust. We will enforce it, and anyone attending the PHP Tour (as well as any of
our events) MUST understand, accept, and respect these rules. No exception.

Yet, diversity cannot be achieved without a decent schedule. That is why we need
**all** of you! The **Call For Paper is open** until February 20, and we cannot
wait to read your proposals! You will find the CFP page at:
[http://event.afup.org/php-tour-2016/appel-a-conferenciers/](http://event.afup.org/php-tour-2016/appel-a-conferenciers/?lang=en).
Need help? Ping [us](mailto:phptour@clermontech.org). For this event, we
encourage people who do not use to speak at conferences (no matter their
reasons).

We hope to see you soon!

_AFUP &amp; Clermont'ech._

---


eep in mind that we are not native English-writers, [email
us](mailto:hello@clermontech.org) if something is poorly written or offending._
